Within us, ayam, we can actually configure identity providers and federation, and what this means
is we can configure within Iame the ability to have our users come from another identity source.
So rather than creating users in Iame, we might have users that are in active directory now.
We might also use social providers and this is more for mobile applications now.
When we're talking about a directory service such as aid, we're using something called Samel, and
when we're looking at these social providers, we're using what's called open connect, and that's also
known as Web Identity Federation.
Now, I mostly recommend that you use a USB cognito for this use case, but you can also configure this
through Iame as well.
So in short, what we're talking about is having our identity so our user accounts in another service
that are able to then log on and have permissions to AWB resources.
And so this is done using SAML 2.0 and you can connect to any Samwell two point zero compatible LDAP
source in this case its active directory.
But it could be some other LDAP database.
So Helda if you don't know it stands for Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.
Active Directory is built off of LDAP.
Alhadeff is what you use to be able to query the information in Active Directory, and there are other
similar databases out there that do very much the same thing.
So once users are authenticated and authorized, they can then access A.W. services.
So that's the key thing is you want your users from Active Directory to be able to authenticate to Adewusi.
You don't want to have to create another account for them in IAM.
So let's have a look a bit more data about Web identity providers and federation.
So we have an identity provider.
You can manage your user identities outside of Adewusi and give these external user identities permissions
to use resources in your account.
So an example is that your organization already has its own identity system, such as Microsoft Active
Directory, or you're creating a mobile app or web application that requires access to AWB resources.
When you use an Iame identity provider, you then don't have to create a custom signing code or manage
your own user identities, the identity provider does that for you.
And external users sign in then for a well known IDP's, such as log in with Amazon, Facebook or Google,
and you can give those external identities permissions to use AYSO resources in your account.
Using identity providers helps to keep your account secure because you don't have to distribute or embed
long term security credentials such as access keys in your application.
And from a customer's perspective, from an organization that's using us, it's also an additional security
because they only have to create their identities in one place, which means they manage their identities
in one place.
They only have one set of usernames and passwords to manage.
So to create an IDP, you create the IAM identity provider entity to establish a trust relationship
between your account and the IDP.
And IAM supports IDPs that are compatible with Open ID Connect or Samwell 2.0.
So that's it for the ferry.
I'm just going to take you into the management console and we're going to see how you would configure
an identity provider.
I'm in the management console in identity and access management.
If you just come down to identity providers and here you can create a provider and then you choose the
time.
So Samal would be then your active directory and you've got to give it a name and you need a metadata
document.
Now, we're not going to create any of this.
I don't have an active directory to configure here.
It wouldn't prove an awful lot anyway.
I suppose I could show you how users could then authenticate when I was service, but it's probably
more than you need to know already.
You just need to understand what identity provider is, what the options are that are available.
So the other option is open.
It connects.
And in this case you have a provider URL and an audience.
So that's it.
Just remember, this is another option.
You know, we've got a single Sinon, we've got the eight of us directory service.
These are all different options for how you can configure where your identities are and how they're
able to authenticate even in a sort of single sinon way or just by being able to allow your users on
premise to authenticate into a single Adewusi account.
So there's a few different tricks that you need to understand and you need to understand for the exam
which one you would use in a specific scenario.
So I would say remember that for mobile applications, when you want to add, sign in and sign up configuration
for a mobile application, typically you're going to go with cognito.
You're not going to use the Iame identity provider.
Now, efore you need to do is to authenticate your users from on premise into a single AWB account.
That's something where you could use this.
So you would use the Samuell and you would configure the source as the active directory of the organization.
And that will enable users of that active directory to then be able to have permissions assigned to
them to access Awassa resources.
And then if you are going to give access to multiple accounts, you might use a single sign on instead.
And database to actually service is something we're going to cover in another lesson.
There's quite a lot to learn there, so I'll leave that one for now.